The Mediterranean region is well known for its beautiful olive groves, and delicious olive oil.
Some of the oldest olive trees are found in Greece and in the Middle East.
It's thought that some of the trees are thousands of years old, and yet they continue to bear
fruit, and they endure. They endure epidemic disease, they endure drought, they endure abuse,
and even neglect, and they bear fruit. But there's one thing that is required for an olive tree to produce
fruit, water. In years of drought, olive trees don't produce fruit. So what do we learn from the olive
tree, and how does that relate to today's text? Turn with me, please, to Luke chapter 8.
And let's read verse 15 in its entirety. Here Jesus concludes his discussion of the man who
sowed seed that fell on different types of soho. As for that on the fine soho, these are the ones
who, after hearing the word with the fine and good heart, number one, retainhood. They retain
the word, and number two, they bear fruit with endurance. Now we're glad Luke included that
detail that neither Mark nor Matthew included in their accounts. Bearing fruit as faithful disciples
of Christ would require endurance. And what is the key to endurance? Well the answer is in the verse,
do you see it? By retaining the word, we bear fruit with endurance. So like the olive tree,
you and I want to be fruitful. Like the olive tree, you and I will experience hardships,
challenges, disappointments, discouragement at times. And how is it that we bear fruit with endurance
by having a heart attachment to Jehovah's word? We need to read it every day and meditate on it,
digest it spiritually. Why? Because the hope that we share with others is the same
hope that sustains us and strengthens our determination to continue faithful in the work
Jehovah has given us to do. The watchtower from which today's text is drawn,
discussed one challenge, unresponsive territory. And certainly that can be a challenge. I couldn't
help but think of Brother George Lindel. Brother Lindel lived in Canada when he learned the truth
and shortly after his baptism he began to pioneer and brother Lindel had a skill. He could speak
Icelandic. So he decided to move to Iceland. He did that in 1929 at the age of 40. Now little
did he know how much endurance would be required to stick to his assignment. For 18 years he was the
only witness in Iceland and during those years not one person to whom he preached took a stand
for the truth. Now in 1936 after he had been there for seven years he commented that he had placed
tens of thousands of books and yet not one person. He said some have taken a stand against the truth
but the majority continue to be indifferent. Would such an assignment call for endurance?
Absolutely. And Brother Lindel did endure faithfully in that assignment.
Now there are other challenges that can make bearing witness difficult. For example we have
brothers and sisters in the world who are facing persecution, restrictions on the work and in
some places the work is banned and yet they continue to bear fruit with endurance. I thought of
Brother Harold King who along with his missionary partner Stanley Jones served in China during the 1950s
and early 1960s. In 1958 Brother King was sentenced to five years of solitary confinement.
Now that would be it seems a recipe for a long period of loneliness and possible discouragement.
But how did Brother King address it? How did he approach it and what sustained him?
Well it was the reservoir that he had built up of Bible knowledge and just like his partner
Brother Jones, Brother King remembered as many Bible verses as he could and he drew on that reservoir
to sustain him spiritually during his years of imprisonment. We might think of the brother
featured in the Sunday morning symposium on our regional convention program who was able to write
down 500 Bible verses. How many could we write if we found ourselves in that situation?
It emphasizes the importance of building up a reservoir. The watchtower asked this interesting
question. If the two brothers King and Jones had failed to make a serious and diligent study of the
Bible before they're arrest, what would have sustained them spiritually? Well it's a good reminder
for us. The verses that Brother King recalled also helped him to bear fruit in a way. In solitary
confinement, he still went out in the ministry in the mornings talking to imaginary people.
Eventually he met Mrs. Carter who after a series of return visits agreed to a Bible study.
Now in the course of his ministry, Brother King says he spoke out loud. Why? So that he could hear
with his ears the hope that he was sharing with his imaginary audience.
That Jehovah's word sustained him. So we retained the word and we bear fruit with endurance.
There's one other thing that we are enduring, a pandemic. And would you agree that it calls for
endurance in ways that we haven't experienced before? For example, in our ministry, we've been
forced to consider avenues of witnessing that we might not have been attracted to before.
Circuit overseers wife shared some interesting comments in that connection. She said,
we're having some of the best experiences through telephone witnessing. I have to say it was
somewhat intimidating when we started. But it is so obvious how Jehovah is blessing this work.
In the congregations, Bible studies have almost doubled and we have more return visits than we
can handle. It is so wonderful. Well, it is wonderful because Jehovah is blessing the work
and he is enabling us to keep bearing fruit with endurance. In his letter, James said that we
should consider it all july when we meet with various trials, knowing as we do that the tested
quality of our faith works out endurance. But James continues, allow endurance to complete its work
why so that you and I will be complete and sound in all respects, not lacking in anything.
That's our determination, isn't it? We would never seek to escape a trial by some unscriptural
means. No, we're determined to retain God's word and to bear fruit. As one of our kingdom songs
so well states, we will not give up nor see the need for doubt or fear. Faithfully will serve
until Jehovah's Day is here. Let's keep on enduring. That time is very near. Yes, you and I are
determined to be amongst those who will retain God's word and bear fruit with endurance.